1.   The defendant No.2 and defendant No.4 have filed these

applications, underOrder VII Rule 11 CPCpraying inter alia that thesuitforpartitionof the HUF assets, for possession, rendition of

accounts, permanent and mandatory injunction etc., instituted by the

plaintiffs be rejected as being barred by law, barred by limitation and



 for the reason that the plaintiffs not being in actual/constructive or

symbolic possession of any of thesuitpremises, they are liable to pay

ad valoremcourtfeeson the valuation of their shares in thesuitpremises for the relief ofpartitionand the plaint has been insufficiently

stamped by them by paying fixedcourtfeesfor the said relief.

CIVIL APPELLATE  JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 3530 of
1 979.
Appeal by	Special Leave  from the	 Judgment and  order
dated 2-2-1979 of the Madras HighCourtin A.S. No. 924/74.
K. S. Ramamurthy, P. N. Ramalingam and A. T. M. Sampath
for the Appellant.
K. Rant Kumar and K. Jayaram for the Respondent.
The Judgment of theCourtwas delivered by
     KAILASAM, J.-The  appellants in  the appeal  by special
leave are plaintiffs 1 to 5 in thesuit. The plaintiffs 1 to
5 are  sisters and defendants 1 to 2 are their brothers. The
third defendant	 is their  unmarried sister.  They  are	 the
children of  the  late	Muthukumaraswamy  Gounder  who	died
intestate  on	20-12-1962  leaving  his  father  Vanavaraya
Gounder who  was managing  all the  ancestral  joint  family
property as  the head  of the  Hindu Undivided	Joint Family
till his  death on  5-3-1972. The plaintiffs claimed that on
the death of Muthukumaraswamy Gounder his 1/3rd share in the
joint family  property devolved	 on his	 sons and daughters,
his sons,  defendants 1	 and 2	taking 1/3rd   share each in
l/3rd share  of the  family property  by birth	and  in	 the
balance all  the  sons	and  daughters	of  Muthukumaraswamy
Gounder taking	an equal  share each. The plaintiffs claimed
to have been in joint possession of the properties alongwith
Vanavaraya Gounder  and his  other sons.  Similarly  on	 the
death of  Vanavaraya Gounder,  his 1/3rd share in the family
properties devolved  upon  his	heirs,	the  plaintiffs	 and
defendants 1  to 3  being entitled  to certain	shares.	 The
claim in  the plaint  is that  each  of	 the  plaintiffs  is
entitled to  a share in thesuitproperties as heirs to Late
Muthukumaraswamy  Gounder   and	 also	as  heirs   to	late
Vanavaraya  Gounder,   their  grand-father.  Each  plaintiff
claimed that  she was  entitled to  1/72 share	in thesuitproperties as heirs to their father Muthukumaraswamy Gounder
and also  to 1/96  share  as  heirs  to	 their	grand-father
Vanavaraya Gounder.  It was alleged in the plaint that since
the death  of Vanavaraya  Gounder, defendants  nos. 1  to  6
failed to  give the plaintiffs their share of income and the
plaintiffs  could   not	 remain	 in  joint  possession.	 The
plaintiffs repeatedly  demandedpartitionand the defendants
1 to 6 were evading. The plaintiffs claimed that each of the
plaintiffs as  co-owners are in joint possession of thesuitproperties and	this action  was laid  to convert  the joint
possession into	 separate possession so far as the shares of
the plaintiffs	are concerned. For the purposes ofcourtfeeand jurisdiction,  the plaintiffs  valued their share of the
property and paidcourtfeeof Rs. 200 underS. 37(2)of the
Tamil NaduCourtFeesandSuitsValuation Act. The relief
prayed for  was forpartitionof  the	properties  and	 for
allotment of  their separate  share, for  accounts  and	 for
other reliefs.

3.          Para 2 of the plaint which deals with valuation

reads as under:

18. In order to decide the question propounded before us, it will be necessary to consider certain authorities. The first is an unreported judgment of a Division Bench of thisCourt, presided over by Sen J., C. R. No. 234 of 1950 (Cal), judgment dated 29-6-50. The facts were as follows: Certain properties belonged to the mother of the plaintiff, being her absolute stridhan properties. The plaintiff filed asuit, stating that his mother had created a trust, but the trust deed was invalid for various reasons. He also advanced the alternative argument that all the beneficiaries had agreed that the trust would cease to operate and the trustees has agreed to give effect to the same.   On these allegations, he claimed that the properties descend ed upon him and his co-sharers, and he asked for apartition, making the trustees and certain beneficiaries who were not co-sharers as parties, paying acourt-feeof Rs. 15/-.    The contention on behalf of the trustees and certain  beneficiaries was that this was not  asuitforpartitionsimpliciter,  but was really    asuitfor the declaration of the plaintiff's title to the properties, brought in the garb of apartitionsuit.    Reliance was placed on a Madras decisionRamaswami     Ayyangar v.   C.   S.   Rangachariar, ILR(1940) Mad 259: (AIR 1940 Mad 113). It was held that thesuitas framed could not be allowed to proceed on the fixedcourt-feepayable in asuitforpartitionpure and simple.The Madras case was distinguished on the ground that there, the   plaintiff   had   brought   asuitagainst his  co-sharers in respect of the property which was admittedly joint family property at some time or other. The  allegation  in the  Madras  case  was  that the father had alienated some of the joint properties without just cause, and the plaintiff joined as parties to thesuitthe transferees, in order to recover them.    It was pointed out that the properties dealt with  by  the mother  were her own  stridhan   properties and the plaintiff was really seeking to set aside the deed of trust, and this was not apartitionsuitin which acourt-feeof Rs. 15/- only was payable.   The next case is also of a Division Bench of thisCourt, presided over by Sen, J. .    The plaintiff there, brought asuit, alleging that the defendant No.  I who was a member of the joint family, had purchased some properties in the benami names of certain persons who were strangers to the family.    Thesuitwas brought forpartitionof the  joint     properties, including these properties and the stranger benamidars    were made parties.    It was held that a prayer forpartitionof properties in the presence of these strangers involved a prayer for declaration of title to these properties and confirmation of possession as against them. Therefore,court-feesshould have been paid on an ad valorem basis and not a fixedcourt-fee, as in apartitionsuit.    It does not appear that the provisions     contained     in  Clause     (vA)   ofArticle   17, Schedule II were brought to the notice of the learned Judges at all.    In fact, it is not mentioned in the judgment, which contains very little reasoning. The next case to be considered is the judgment of a Division   Bench   of  thisCourtpresided  over by Lahiri, J. (as he then was) .    The  facts  of  that case were  as follows:    The plaintiff instituted asuitforpartitionof certain  immovable properties described  in Schedule 'Ka' of the plaint, and of a Biri business described  in Schedule     'Kha',   as  also  of certain moveables described in Schedule 'Ga'.   The defendants Nos.    1 and 2 were the two brothers of the plaintiff, and the defendant No. 3 was the son of the  defendant No.   1.    The plaintiff paid a fixedcourt-feeof Rs. 15/-, as in apartitionsuit.    The controversy  with     regard  tocourt-feescentered round the Biri business.    In the plaint, the plaintiff stated that the Bin    business was started with the  income  of the joint family  consisting of the plaintiff and his two brothers.    This business was carried on in a number of places, and it was stated that the defendant No. 1, with a view to deprive the plaintiff of his legitimate share of the income from the said business, fraudulently and collusively purported to sell it in favour of one Keshab Chandra Pal and thereafter got a fraudulent reconveyance from him in favour of his minor son, the defendant No. 3. He stated that these deeds of transfer were fraudulent and sham documents and that in spite of these fraudulent transfers, the Biri business continued to be a joint family business. It was stated that all properties were in the joint possession of the parties. The learned Subordinate Judge held that the plaintiff had stated that he was in joint possession, but not in actual possession, and he held that the plaintiff should pay ad valoremcourt-feesupon an one-third share of the value of the business. The plaintiff thereupon made an application challenging this finding. The learned Judges held that it was not necessary for the plaintiff in asuitforpartitionto allege that he was in exclusive possession. It was sufficient to allege joint possession. They then proceeded to discuss the effect of the introduction of para (v-A) ofArticle 17, Schedule II of the said Act. Lahiri, J. (as he then was) said as follows:



In that case, the plaintiff brought asuitforpartitionalleging joint possession andCourtfeewas paid on one quarter of the value of the share in accordance with first part ofSection 7(vi-A). The defendants denied the plaintiffs possession and title. Appropriate issue was framed and on evidence, it was found that the plaintiff was not in possession. The TrialCourtdid not demandCourtfeeupon the full value of the share in accordance with the second part ofSection 7(vi-A), before pronouncing the final order, but dismissed thesuit. The first appeal by plaintiff was also dismissed. In the second appeal filed by the plaintiffs, the question ofCourtfeewas raised. The Full Bench held that having regard to the finding of twoCourtsbelow that the plaintiffs were out of possession as on the date when they brought thesuit,Courtfeeought to have been levied on the full value of the share claimed. TheCourtheld that realisation of deficiency inCourtfeecould not be postponed on the ground that the question whether the plaintiff was in joint possession or was not is to be decided in the appeal. TheCourtobserved:

8. Therefore, the question that arises for consideration is, whether in apartitionsuit, the plaintiff can be permitted to withdraw thesuit, or whether asuitcan be dismissed as settled out ofCourtbetween plaintiff and some of the defendants, when other defendants have also soughtpartitionand separate possession.
9. At the outset it should be noticed that the reason given by the TrialCourtfor rejecting the objection of first and fifth defendants to the memo of the plaintiff for dismissing thesuit, is wholly erroneous. The TrialCourthas held that defendant's prayer forpartitionis a counterclaim; and that a counter-claim is permissible only in a moneysuitand not in apartitionsuit; and therefore the counter-claim was not tenable. Firstly, when a defendant in asuitforpartitionseeks his or her share in property by payingCourtfee, such a defendant is not making a 'counterclaim' against a plaintiff alone. He is virtually joining the plaintiff in seeking the relief. He is seeking relief for himself not only against the plaintiff, but also the other defendants. TheCourtbelow, therefore, fell into an error by treating the written statement in asuitforpartitionseeking separate possession of the defendants' share as a counter-claim against the plaintiff. Secondly, theCourtalso fell into an error in assuming that a counter-claim is permissible only in a moneysuitand not in any othersuit.

1. This revision application raises the point as to thecourt-feepayable in asuitforpartitionof the joint family properties belonging to a joint Hindu family, when the plaintiff asserts that he is in joint possession with the defendants of those properties. The matter has come before a full bench, I understand, because, following the recent decision of the Madras HighCourtinRamaswami v. Rangachariar, [1940] Mad. 259, F.B. it now appears, in the words used by the learned Chief Justice at p. 276 of that report, that "the Bombay HighCourtstands alone" in its application ofSection 7(v)of theCourt-feesAct to such cases.The view of the Bombay HighCourtis expressed in three decisions: (1) Mahadeva Balwant Karandikar v. Laxuman Balwant Karandikar (1893) P.J. 13, (2) Balvant Ganesh v. Nana Chintamon (1893) I.L.R. 18 Bom.209, and (3) Dagdu v. Totaram(1909) I.L.R. 33 Bom. 658, S.C. 11 Bom. L.R. 1074, It was held in all those cases that the plaintiff in apartitionsuitsuch as the present must paycourt-feead valorem on the value of his share in the joint family property underSection 7, paragraph (v), of theCourt-feesAct. This view apparently has stood unchallenged for more than fifty years, and we should, I think, be very reluctant to disturb it, except for good reason. At the same time the ordinary principles of stare decisis do not apply with their usual force where the question involves no possibility of disturbance of titles, but is a fiscal matter between Government and the litigant. Notice has been issued to the learned Government Pleader, and we have had the assistance of the arguments of Mr. Jathar, Assistant Government Pleader, in addition to those of Mr. Desai, who for the opponents in this revision supports the view taken by the trialCourt, which naturally felt itself bound by the Bombay decisions.

Learned counsel for the State, however, relied on a later decision in -- 'Muneshwar Bakhsh v.
Har Prasad', AIR 1945 Oudh 207 (B) for the contrary proposition that where on the finding of the twoCourtsbelow it appears that the plaintiff was out of possession of the share claimed in apartitionsuit, he should be asked to pay 'ad valorem'court-feeon the full value of his share before the appeal could be admitted for hearing on merits.
In view of the general importance of the question the Taxing Judge referred the matter for consideration by a Pull Bench.